Story Recapped here. Today I'm going to explain
a psychological thriller film called Would You
Rather. Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care
Iris is a young woman who struggles to find a job
to care for her sick brother. At a job interview,
she shares her experiences, but the interviewer
does not sound interested in hiring her. Raleigh
suffers from leukemia. He feels like a burden to
his sister, but Iris always reminds her that he is
not. He does all he can to help her, but because
of his disease, his abilities are limited. Their
budget is very tight, so Iris does all she can
to make ends meet. One day, she informs Raleigh
that she will visit his oncologist, Dr Barden,
because according to him, he can help cut some of
the costs for his treatment. Iris arrives at the
clinic and helps an elderly woman on a wheelchair
named Linda to enter the building as well.
Dr Barden welcomes her to his office where
he introduces her to Shepard Lambrick,
his philanthropist friend. Iris takes a
seat to discuss her brother’s condition.
Dr Barden has already informed Shepard
about Raleigh’s needs. According to Shepard,
his foundation can help improve his situation
through financial means. The doctor adds that
the Lambricks provide funds for building clinics
and schools all over the world, especially in
developing countries. Shepard gets up his seat to
proceed to discuss his proposal in great detail.
He says that his family believes in creating
opportunities for people who have not received
any luck in their life — like Iris and Raleigh.
This sparks interest in the young woman because
she desperately needs assistance with her bills.
So she asks what she has to do to get the help
they need. Shepard replies by saying that he will
host a dinner party, and she simply has to join.
She makes it clear if there are other people
invited to which he replies that people who are
also in the same situation as her will come.
Individuals that they want to help have to
participate in a game of sorts. The winner will
be taken care of from their bills, education,
house, and basically everything. Iris
asks what will happen if she does not win,
but Shepard simply says “you just don’t win”.
Still confused about his generous offer, Iris
asks Dr Barden if it is legit. Shepard laughs at
her remark. The doctor explains that Shepard saved
his life; he was once invited to the dinner, and
won the contest. Since then, the promise of a new
life has been fulfilled by Shepard’s foundation.
Iris says that she will need more time to think
about it. Before she leaves, Shepard hands her
an information card if she decides to RSVP;
the deadline will be by 8 PM that day. He also
adds that if she wins, he will pay for Raleigh's
treatment and use his foundation's influence to
shortlist a bone marrow donor for him. That night,
she receives a call from the interviewer where she
recently applied, but she got rejected. Because of
this, she rummages through her hamper to look for
the Lambrick Foundation business card and confirms
that she will participate in the dinner party. The
following day, she lets Raleigh know that she will
have dinner with some of her high school friends
and says that he will have to stay home alone for
the night. She gets ready and puts on the best
dress she owns. A luxurious car picks Iris up
from her home just before the sun sets. During the
ride, she recalls conversations with Raleigh, as a
source of strength to get through the evening.
She arrives at the manor; where Bevans,
Shepard’s butler and former M I 5 agent,
welcomes her. According to him, she is the
eighth and final guest for the party. Iris is
introduced to the other contestants: Lucas; Cal;
Peter, a high stakes gambler; Linda, a paralyzed
elderly woman; Travis, a war veteran; Amy;
and Conway, an alcoholic debtor. Meanwhile, Dr
Barden is at his home, looking at photographs
and recalling his conversation with Shepard
from the past day. Dr Barden seems to be
an accomplice of Shepard; but he dismisses
the idea that Iris should join the contest.
However, he hands the doctor an envelope of money
to silence him. Shepard prepares himself for the
evening while giving reminders to his son, Julian,
to be on his best behavior for the night. Julian
is stubborn but his father tolerates his behavior.
In the common room where the contestants gather,
Bevans announces that all their possessions,
such as phones and keys, must be left in that
room during the game. He assures them that their
belongings will be safe and secure. One by one,
they hand their stuff to Bevans. After, he guides
them through to the dining room. The table is
prepared beautifully with elegant tablewares.
Place cards are provided for their seating
arrangement. The eight contestants take their
places in accordance with their assigned seats.
Shepard and Julian make their entrance just
in time. He welcomes everyone to the Lambrick
house and introduces Julian. He orders Bevans
to serve them the meal. A steak and foie gras
dinner is served along with some red wine. Iris
raises her hand to let the host know that she is
a vegetarian. However, there are no available
options in the kitchen to replace her meal.
She has been a vegetarian for most of her life,
so she declines to eat the steak. Shepard then
offers her ten thousand dollars to compromise
her principles. Initially, Iris refuses,
but after some convincing, she reluctantly accepts
his offer and eats the steak. Shepard notices that
Conway isn’t drinking wine, so he offers him other
alcoholic beverages. When Shepard realizes Conway
is a recovering alcoholic, he offers him ten
thousand dollars to drink a glass of wine. Conway
declines the offer because he has been sober for
16 years. Shepard does not give up on persuading
Conway, so he offers him fifty thousand dollars in
exchange for drinking a whole decanter of scotch.
Conway fights his morals that he carefully
built for almost two decades. Eventually, he
accepts the offer and drinks the scotch. Shepard
is clearly entertained by putting his guests in
uncomfortable situations. After the meal, he makes
an announcement regarding the game for the night.
He introduces the famous childhood game called
“would you rather”. He explains that in each
round, each player will be given a choice between
two things. Whichever they choose, they must act
upon, or else they will face consequences.
He adds that as the game continues with one
dilemma after another, eliminating players as
they continue, only one winner can succeed.
Their time to make their decision is only limited
to 15 seconds, or else, they will be eliminated.
The game is basically decision making in its
rawest form to expose the players’ characters.
Shepard gives a last chance for anyone to leave
the manor if they no longer wish to participate.
However, everyone is still willing to be
part of the game. They officially begin;
Bevans wheels in an equipment covered in black
cloth. He later reveals that it is an electric
machine. All of them get confused and scared.
Conway gets up because he knows that Shepard plans
on hurting them. He attempts to leave but Shepard
tells him that the chance to flee has already been
given. Conway tries to walk away but Bevans shoots
him immediately. They all scream as the incident
takes them in a state of fear. The remaining
contestants learn how serious and deadly the
game is, and realize they can only win the game if
they are the last surviving player. Participation
is no longer voluntary. In order for them to not
end up like Conway, they should follow the rules.
The first round is played by having two
players connected to the electric machine.
One of them has to decide if they should
electrocute themselves or the other person. Bevans
places the headpiece on Cal and Amy. Shepard asks
Cal if he would rather electrocute himself or Amy.
The blue button is for him, while the red is for
the latter. The timer starts, and Cal presses the
blue button which gives him an abrupt shock. Amy
smirks as she is spared some pain. The headpiece
is transferred to Linda while she cries in fear.
Before Shepard asks the question, Amy presses the
blue button to electrocute the poor lady. Linda
falls unconscious for a split second, but they
manage to revive her. It is now Linda’s turn to
choose as the other headpiece is worn on Peter.
He tries to get up, but a gun is pointed at him
right away. Linda decides to electrocute Peter.
Meanwhile, Dr Barden plans on stopping the evil
ways of Shepard. He opens a drawer to get his gun,
then drives to the manor in the middle of the
night. Back in the dining room, it is now Travis’s
turn to choose between electrocuting himself
or Lucas. Travis spares himself, leaving Lucas
being hurt. Now that it is his turn, he assures
Iris that he will take the shock instead of her,
which he does accordingly. During the second time,
he looks fazed, and his head falls to the table.
Now that it is time for Iris to choose between her
and Cal, she selflessly presses the button that
electrocutes her. Shepard gives them a moment
to compose themselves while his team prepares
for the second round. While all of them try to
strategize and form a game plan, Julian reenters
the dining room to have a casual conversation.
A menacing vibe radiates from him, and starts
to disrespect everyone in the room. Travis
gets up to tell him that he should keep quiet,
but Julian tells him that opening his mouth was a
big mistake. Julian is now up to something vile.
The other servants bring rolls of plastic to cover
the whole room. The players worry about the next
round being worse. Dr Barden arrives at the back
portion of the manor where there are no lights.
Knowing that everyone is busy attending the
game, he climbs up the wall to make his way in.
The second round begins; each of them will get
30 seconds in order to make their decisions.
He begins with Iris; Shepard asks if she would
rather stab Cal in the thigh with an ice pick
or strike Travis three times with a whip. Travis
tells her that it is okay to strike him rather
than stab someone. He removes his coat to
receive the strikes voluntarily. Shepard
reminds Iris that the strikes should be strong
enough to hurt him, or else it won’t count.
On the first try, Iris strikes him gently,
but Shepard refuses to count it valid.
She does it again, which obviously hurts
Travis, leaving three big wounds on his back.
Lucas is given the options of stabbing Iris
on the thigh or striking Travis thrice again;
he chooses to do the same to Travis who is still
willing to be on the receiving end of the painful
dare. Lucas strikes three times. These
options are clearly orchestrated by Julian,
who got into a heated argument with Travis
earlier. Travis is now the one to choose;
he either stabs Lucas on the thigh or receive
three more lashes administered by Bevans. He
refuses to stab anybody, so he receives three more
lashes. At this point, it is clear that he needs
serious medical attention as a lot of blood is
lost from his system. Travis is badly injured and
Peter, knowing he won't survive another lashing,
stabs Linda in the leg after apologizing to her.
Unfortunately, he hits her femoral artery, so an
uncontrollable amount of blood seeps from her.
Peter tries to stop it by using a belt to apply
pressure. It is Linda’s turn to choose between
whipping Travis or stabbing Amy. She takes a split
second to think, then stabs Amy, who in return,
hits her face. Among the players, Amy is the odd
one out, she does not feel sorry for the others
who got hurt. Amy is then given the options
to either whip Travis or choose any player
to stab with the ice pick. After saying that
the game is not about helping each other, but
eliminating everyone, she chooses to stab Iris. As
she approaches, Iris begs her not to do it. Out of
nowhere, she asks Shepard if she could stab Iris
anywhere. Iris panics as the host agrees to Amy’s
sadistic request. She stabs Iris on the right
part of her torso, leaving her in great pain.
After looking for ways to break into the
manor, Dr Barden finally finds a way in
through the basement. He quietly descends from
outside and walks forward. In the dining room,
Peter informs everyone that Linda has not
moved for a significant amount of time.
Shepard puts the guilt on him because he was
the one who stabbed her. Bevans checks for vital
signs, then announces her death. They all get
devastated after Bevans gets her out of the room.
Cal then chooses to whip Travis enough to
incapacitate him, making him eliminated from the
game. While Shepard and Bevans talk about the next
round, Lucas causes a distraction and everyone
except Amy attempts to escape the room. Iris stabs
one of the men with the ice pick; this bids her
time to leave the room. Cal advances on Shepard to
strike him, but gets shot in his failed attempt.
After Shepard shoots and kills Cal, the others
surrender. Iris runs to the basement while
being chased by the servants. Julian finds
her and attempts to force himself on her,
but she stabs him with the ice pick. As she
sees Dr Barden, Bevans successfully kills him.
She loses hope, and is forced to come back to
the game and reunite with the remaining players.
Shepard apologizes to her for his son’s behavior
that took place in the basement, and blames it on
his lack of motherly care. The third round begins
with each player having thirty seconds to choose
between being submerged underwater in a barrel
for two minutes, or an unknown task written on an
envelope that is placed in front of them. Peter
takes the first turn; he chooses the envelope
which requires him to light a firecracker
in his hand. He does not seem too scared,
but then finds out that it is a quarter stick.
Bevans secures it to his hand using duct tape. He
lights it fearfully; when it explodes, it causes
a heart attack and he dies. Lucas also chooses
the envelope over the barrel. The card shows a
drawing of an eye; the option forces him to slit
open his own eyeball with a blade. If he refuses
to do so, Shepard will have him killed, so he
does the dare and survives. Iris chooses the
barrel; she will be submerged in it for two
minutes as Bevans holds her head steadily.
She dramatically thinks of her brother as a
motivation to survive. She struggles excessively,
but she makes it through. Lucas reveals that her
unpicked card would have dared her to have all of
her teeth extracted. She is partially relieved to
get past this round. Amy then chooses her card
and learns that she must be submerged underwater
for four minutes; she has a fear of being
underwater, but she has no choice but to obey.
Bevans did not give her enough time to be ready,
so she drowns, while the others painfully watch.
Amy eventually stops moving, and Bevans lays her
down. With only Iris and Lucas in the final round,
Shepard makes them sit facing each other. After
flipping a coin to know who gets to choose first,
Iris is given the choice to either shoot and
kill Lucas to win the game, or spare him, which
would result in both walking away empty-handed.
After some hesitation, Iris gathers the courage
to shoot Lucas in the chest, killing him. The
men in the room applaud as Iris covers her ears.
Shepard announces her as the champion. He gives
her a bag full of money which is more than enough
to pay for her brother’s treatment, and pay
off all her debt as well. He explains that
a donor has already been found for her brother
in Romania. When Iris arrives home, she cleans
herself and takes a moment to let everything sink
in. She then discovers that Raleigh has taken his
own life by drinking an excessive amount of
medication while she was out. He could not
handle the fact that he is a burden any longer.
The sight of her lifeless brother devastates her;
she starts crying after realizing that there
was no point in participating in Shepard’s game.